# Understand resourceID in resource configuration YAML

Most resources map the Kubernetes `metadata.name` field directly to the Google
Cloud resource name. However, some Google Cloud resources have IDs that are
generated by the service upon creation, and these don't necessarily match the
name assigned in KCC.

## Regular Resources (User-Specified resourceID):

By default, KCC uses the value in `metadata.name` of the YAML as the name/ID for
the resource in Google Cloud. We can optionally use s`pec.resourceID` to specify
a Google Cloud resource name that is different from the Kubernetes
`metadata.name`. If `spec.resourceID` is set, it takes precedence.
`spec.resourceID` is totally optional here and won't affect the reconciliation.

## Resources with Service-Generated Resource IDs:

**To create a NEW resource**: You should omit the `spec.resourceID` field in the
YAML. KCC will call the GCP API to create the resource, and GCP will generate
the unique ID.

**To acquire an EXISTING resource**: If you want KCC to manage an existing GCP
resource of this type, you must specify its service-generated ID in the
`spec.resourceID` field. KCC uses this ID to find and manage the existing GCP
resource. Without it, KCC won't be able to locate the correct resource to
acquire and might attempt to create a new one, potentially leading to
duplicates. The existence of `spec.resourceID` fundamentally changes the
reconciliation operation.

## Notes

Both resources kinds(regular and service-generated ID), if `spec.resourceID` is
unset, with legacy controller, we write it back. Today with direct controller,
we write the full resource url including resourceID to `status.externalRef`.
