asset.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=AssetFeed
asset.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=AssetSavedQuery
backupdr.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=BackupDRBackupPlan
batch.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=BatchJob
bigquery.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=BigQueryRoutine
bigquerybiglake.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=BigLakeTable
bigqueryreservation.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=BigQueryReservationAssignment
bigqueryreservation.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=BigQueryReservationReservation
clouddeploy.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=CloudDeployDeliveryPipeline
cloudquota.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=APIQuotaPreference
composer.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=ComposerEnvironment
datacatalog.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=DataCatalogPolicyTag
datacatalog.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=DataCatalogTaxonomy
documentai.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=DocumentAIProcessorVersion
essentialcontacts.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=EssentialContactsContact
kms.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=KMSImportJob
metastore.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=MetastoreBackup
pubsub.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=PubSubSnapshot
tags.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=TagsTagBinding
tags.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=TagsTagKey
tags.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=TagsTagValue
vmwareengine.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1, Kind=VMwareEngineExternalAddress